DWW Document group profiles (#1947)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/schemas/index.md

}
```

## Group Schema operations

The [User Types](/docs/reference/api/user-types) feature doesn't extend to groups. All groups use the same [Group Schema](#group-schema-object). Thus, unlike the User Schema operations, the Group Schema operations all specify `default` and don't accept a Schema ID.

### Get Group Schema

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/meta/schemas/group/default" />

Fetches the group schema.

##### Request parameters

N/A

##### Response parameters

> [Group Schema](#group-schema-object)

Author: Woah.  Oops, yeah, that would probably make this not work.

|:------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|:-----------|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|
| definitions | Subschema with one or more custom Profile properties | Body       | [Group Profile custom subschema](#group-profile-custom-subschema) | TRUE     |

##### Response parameters

[Group Schema](#group-schema-object)

##### Request example

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-d '{
  "definitions": {
    "custom": {
      "id": "#custom",
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "groupContact": {
          "title": "Group administrative contact",
          "description": "Group administrative contact",
          "type": "string",
          "required": false,
          "minLength": 1,
          "maxLength": 20,
          "permissions": [
            {
              "principal": "SELF",
              "action": "READ_WRITE"
            }
          ]
        }
      },
      "required": []
    }
  }
}' "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/meta/schemas/group/default"
```

##### Response example

> The following response is only a subset of properties for brevity.

Author: This is copy/pasted from other parts of the file I'm not changing, and it's technically correct as-is.  So I'm going to leave it.

      "required": [
        "name"
      ],
      "type": "object"
    },
    "custom": {
      "id": "#custom",
      "properties": {
        "groupContact": {
          "description": "Group administrative contact",
          "master": {
            "type": "PROFILE_MASTER"
          },
          "mutability": "READ_WRITE",
          "permissions": [
            {
              "action": "READ_WRITE",
              "principal": "SELF"
            }
          ],
          "scope": "NONE",
          "title": "Group administrative contact",
          "type": "string"
        }
      },
      "required": [],
      "type": "object"
    }
  },
  "description": "Okta group profile template",
  "id": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/meta/schemas/group/default",
  "lastUpdated": "2021-02-25T23:05:31.000Z",
  "name": "group",
  "properties": {
    "profile": {
      "allOf": [
        {
          "$ref": "#/definitions/custom"
        },
        {
          "$ref": "#/definitions/base"
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "title": "Okta group",
  "type": "object"
}
```

### Remove property from Group Profile Schema

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/meta/schemas/group/default" />

> Removes one or more [custom Group Profile properties](#group-profile-schema-property-object) from the group schema.

Author: Sure.

}
```

## Group Schema operations

> > **Note:** This is an <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />
```

## Group Schema operations

> > **Note:** This is an <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> feature.

Reviewer 2: ![Screen Shot 2021-04-29 at 3 28 58 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12566503/116626368-f37b4100-a8ff-11eb-87ac-c092b0c79788.png)

| `number`      | [JSON Number](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159#section-6) with double-precision 64-bit IEEE 754 floating point number constraint | `minimum` and `maximum`     |
| `integer`     | [JSON Number](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159#section-6) with 32-bit signed two's complement integer constraint           | `minimum` and `maximum`     |
| `array`       | [JSON Array](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159#section-5)                                                                         |                             |

> ## Group User Schema object

Author: Indeed it should.  Fixed.

The [Group object](/docs/reference/api/groups/#group-object) Schema is defined using [JSON Schema Draft 4](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-zyp-json-schema-04).

> > **Note:** The schema currently only defines the [Profile object](/docs/reference/api/groups/#group-profile-object).

Author: Yeah, I think you're right.  Changed.

|:------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|:-------|:---------|:------------|
| id          | URI of Group Schema                                                                      | String                                                             | FALSE    | TRUE   | TRUE     |             |
| $schema     | JSON Schema version identifier                                                           | String                                                             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
| name        | Name for the Schema                                                                      | String                                                             | FALSE    | TRUE   | TRUE     |             |
| description | Description for the Schema                                                               | String                                                             | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    |             |

> | title       | User-defined display name for the Schema                                                 | String                                                             | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    |             |

Author: Hmm, I verified before that via the API, we silently ignore attempts to update them.  Yes, they should be marked read only.

| created     | Timestamp when the Schema was created                                                    | [ISO 8601 String](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
| lastUpdated | Timestamp when the Schema was last updated                                               | [ISO 8601 String](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |

> | definitions | App User Profile subschemas                                                              | [App User Profile Subschemas](#app-user-profile-subschemas)        | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    | JSON Schema |

Author: That it is.  I caught a bunch of those myself, missed this one.

| type        | Type of [root Schema](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-zyp-json-schema-04#section-3.4)  | String                                                             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |

> | properties  | User object properties                                                                   | [App User object](/docs/reference/api/apps/#application-user-object) property set | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |

Author: That might also be a copy paste error where I copied it from :trollface:  since it talks about a User object and an App User object in the same line.  I'll fix both of these.

### Group Profile subschemas

> The [Profile object](/docs/reference/api/apps/#application-user-profile-object) for a Group is defined by a composite schema of base and custom properties using a JSON path to reference subschemas. The `#base` properties are defined and versioned by Okta while `#custom` properties are extensible.

Author: Gah.  More copypasta errors than I thought.

- [Group Profile base subschema](#group-profile-base-subschema)
- [Group Profile custom subschema](#group-profile-custom-subschema)

> Custom property names for the [Profile object](/docs/reference/api/groups/#group-profile-object) must be unique and can't conflict with a property name defined in the `#base` subschema.

Author: Changed.

```json
{
  "definitions": {
    "base": {
      "id": "#base",
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {},
      "required": []
    },
    "custom": {
      "id": "#custom",
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {},
      "required": []
    }
  },
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "profile": {
      "allOf": [
        {
          "$ref": "#/definitions/base"
        },
        {
          "$ref": "#/definitions/custom"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}

> ```

Author: Yeah, that's weird.  I don't know how that happened.  I'll replace it with something better.

  }
}
```

#### Group Profile Schema Property object

Group Profile schema properties have the following standard [JSON Schema Draft 6](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wright-json-schema-validation-01) properties:

| Property                       | Description                                | DataType                                          | Nullable | Unique | Readonly |
|:-------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------|:---------|:-------|:---------|
| title                          | user-defined display name for the property | String                                            | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    |
| description                    | description of the property                | String                                            | TRUE     | FALSE  | FALSE    |
| type                           | type of property                           | `string`, `boolean`, `number`, `integer`, `array` | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    |
| enum                           | enumerated value of the property           | array                                             | TRUE     | TRUE   | FALSE    |

> | oneOf                          | non-empty array of valid JSON schemas      | array                                             | TRUE     | TRUE   | FALSE    |

Reviewer 2: Actually I think what you have is correct. `enum` and `oneOf` are listed as `Nullable` `TRUE`. I was blind 🙈

> | oneOf                          | non-empty array of valid JSON schemas      | array                                             | TRUE     | TRUE   | FALSE    |

Author: That's probably wrong in the other schema specs as well, but I'm not going to take the time to test it out to make sure so I'll only fix it in the Group schema (where I know it's wrong).

 ```json
{
  "const": "enumValue",
  "title": "display name"
}
 ```

In case `enum` is used in conjunction with `oneOf`, the set of enumerated values and their order must be kept.

```json
{"enum": ["S","M","L","XL"],
  "oneOf": [
    {"const": "S", "title": "Small"},
    {"const": "M", "title": "Medium"},
    {"const": "L", "title": "Large"},
    {"const": "XL", "title": "Extra Large"}
  ]
}
 ```

`oneOf` is only supported in conjunction with `enum`, providing a mechanism to return a display name for the `enum` value.

Okta has also extended [JSON Schema Draft 4](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-zyp-json-schema-04) with the following keywords:

| Property      | Description                                     | DataType                                                                  | Nullable | Unique | Readonly |
| :------------- | :----------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------- | :------ | :-------- |
| required      | determines whether the property is required     | Boolean                                                                   | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    |

> | scope         | determines whether an appuser attribute can be set at the individual or group level | `SELF`, `NONE`                        | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |

Reviewer 2: This also seems to be a copy-paste mistake. ie . `appuser attribute`

Author: Yes. Fixed.

> > **Note:** A read-only [JSON Schema Draft 4](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-zyp-json-schema-04) compliant `required` property is also available on [App User Profile subschemas](#app-user-profile-subschemas).

Reviewer 2: This too, seems to be apply to app user profile schema

Author: Also fixed.

> ```json

Reviewer 2: Do we need this sample json? A similar json has already be added at L2320 under the "Group Profile custom subschema" title

Author: This is the individual property section, so example JSON should likewise be for an individual property.  Fixed.

| title       | User-defined display name for the Schema                                                 | String                                                             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
| created     | Timestamp when the Schema was created                                                    | [ISO 8601 String](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
| lastUpdated | Timestamp when the Schema was last updated                                               | [ISO 8601 String](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
| definitions | Group Profile subschemas                                                                 | [Group Profile Subschemas](#group-profile-subschemas)           | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    | JSON Schema |
| type        | Type of [root Schema](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-zyp-json-schema-04#section-3.4)  | String                                                             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |

> | properties  | Group object properties                                                                  | [Group object](/docs/reference/api/apps/#group-object) property set | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| properties  | Group object properties                                                                  | [Group object](/docs/reference/api/groups/#group-object) property set | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
```

### Group Profile subschemas

> The [Profile object](/docs/reference/api/groups/#group-profile-object) for a Group is defined by a composite schema of base and custom properties using a JSON path to reference subschemas. The `#base` properties are defined and versioned by Okta while `#custom` properties are extensible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Profile object](/docs/reference/api/groups/#profile-object) for a Group is defined by a composite schema of base and custom properties using a JSON path to reference subschemas. The `#base` properties are defined and versioned by Okta while `#custom` properties are extensible.
```

| `number`      | [JSON Number](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159#section-6) with double-precision 64-bit IEEE 754 floating point number constraint | `minimum` and `maximum`     |
| `integer`     | [JSON Number](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159#section-6) with 32-bit signed two's complement integer constraint           | `minimum` and `maximum`     |
| `array`       | [JSON Array](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159#section-5)                                                                         |                             |

## Group Schema object

> > **Note:** This is an <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />
```

            }
          ],
          "required": true,
          "scope": "NONE",
          "title": "Name",
          "type": "string"
        }
      },
      "required": [
        "name"
      ],
      "type": "object"
    },
    "custom": {
      "id": "#custom",
      "properties": {
        "exampleCustomProperty": {
          "description": "exampleCustomProperty",
          "master": {
            "type": "PROFILE_MASTER"
          },
          "maxLength": 20,
          "minLength": 1,
          "mutability": "READ_WRITE",
          "permissions": [
            {
              "action": "READ_WRITE",
              "principal": "SELF"
            }
          ],
          "required": true,
          "scope": "NONE",
          "title": "exampleCustomProperty",
          "type": "string",
          "unique": "UNIQUE_VALIDATED"
        }
      },
      "required": [
        "exampleCustomProperty"
      ],
      "type": "object"
    }
  }
}
```

#### Group Profile base subschema

All Okta-defined Profile properties are defined in a Profile subschema with the resolution scope `#base`. These properties can't be removed or edited.  Attempting to do so anyway will have no effect.

> The base Group Profile varies is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The base Group Profile properties are as follows:
```

## Group Schema object

> > **Note:** This is an <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> feature.

Reviewer 2: ![Screen Shot 2021-04-29 at 3 28 58 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12566503/116626393-ff670300-a8ff-11eb-9576-652276ee2e98.png)

| title       | User-defined display name for the Schema                                                 | String                                                             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
| created     | Timestamp when the Schema was created                                                    | [ISO 8601 String](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
| lastUpdated | Timestamp when the Schema was last updated                                               | [ISO 8601 String](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |
| definitions | Group Profile subschemas                                                                 | [Group Profile Subschemas](#group-profile-subschemas)           | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    | JSON Schema |
| type        | Type of [root Schema](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-zyp-json-schema-04#section-3.4)  | String                                                             | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |

> | properties  | Group object properties                                                                  | [Group object](/docs/reference/api/apps/#group-object) property set | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE     |             |

Reviewer 2: nit: link should be `.../groups/#group-object`

### Group Profile subschemas

> The [Profile object](/docs/reference/api/groups/#group-profile-object) for a Group is defined by a composite schema of base and custom properties using a JSON path to reference subschemas. The `#base` properties are defined and versioned by Okta while `#custom` properties are extensible.

Reviewer 2: nit: link should be `.../groups/#profile-object`
